JAZZ protocol (#1449)
qiboteam/qibocal: doc/source/protocols/zz_interaction/zz_interaction.rst

Author: I think it would clarify a lot if we could show the pulse-sequence for the experiments.

Residual ZZ Interaction
=======================

In superconducting transmon quantum processors, qubits are never perfectly isolated.
Even when no two-qubit gate is being executed, neighboring qubits experience weak

> always-on interactions mediated by the coupling network. One of the most important

Author: ```suggestion
always-on interactions. One of the most important
```
What is "the coupling network"? Is it jargon? If it means nothing specific but is just to say that qubits are not perfectly isolated and thus coupled in some way, then that was covered by saying there are always-on interactions.

undesired interactions is the **residual ZZ coupling**, which produces a state-dependent
frequency shift.

> For two coupled qubits, restricted to the computational subspace

Author: ```suggestion
For two coupled qubits restricted to the computational subspace
```

:math:`\{|00\rangle, |01\rangle, |10\rangle, |11\rangle\}`, the

> effective static Hamiltonian can generally be written as

Author: ```suggestion
effective static Hamiltonian can be written as
```
What do you mean by generally?

.. math::

   H/\hbar = -\frac{\omega_0}{2} ZI

>            - \frac{\omega_1}{2} IZ

Author: ```suggestion
   H/\hbar = -\frac{\omega_1}{2} ZI
           - \frac{\omega_2}{2} IZ
```
Everywhere else you're using qubits 1 and 2.

           - \frac{\zeta}{4} ZZ,

where :math:`\zeta` is the residual ZZ interaction strength.

> where :math:`\omega_1, \omega_2` are the (dressed) qubit frequencies

Author: ```suggestion
where :math:`\zeta` is the residual ZZ interaction strength, :math:`\omega_1, \omega_2` are the (dressed) qubit frequencies
```

and :math:`\zeta` is the residual ZZ interaction rate.

> In a simple three-level-per-qubit model, the ZZ rate can be

Author: ```suggestion
In a simple qutrit model, the ZZ rate can be
```

> In a simple three-level-per-qubit model, the ZZ rate can be

Author: ```suggestion
In a three-level-per-qubit model, the ZZ rate can be
```
What is simple about the model?

approximated in the **dispersive regime** as

.. math::

   \zeta_{ZZ} \approx \frac{2 g^2 \alpha_1 \alpha_2}
   {(\Delta_{12} - \alpha_1)(\Delta_{12} + \alpha_2)}

where :math:`\Delta_{12} = \omega_1 - \omega_2` is the qubit-qubit

> detuning and :math:`\alpha_{1,2}` are the qubit anharmonicities and :math:`g` is the

Author: ```suggestion
where :math:`\Delta_{12} = \omega_1 - \omega_2` is the detuning between qubits 1 and 2, :math:`\alpha_{1,2}` are the qubit anharmonicities, and :math:`g` is the
```

> **coupling strength**, which depends on the physical capacitance of the circuits.

Author: ```suggestion
**coupling strength**. The latter is determined by the physical capacitance of the circuits.
```

The ZZ term shifts the transition frequency of one qubit depending on the state of
its neighbor:

.. math::

   \omega_\mathrm{target}^{(|1\rangle)}
   - \omega_\mathrm{target}^{(|0\rangle)}

>    = \zeta.

Author: You'll need to introduce this notation. Or leave it out - arguably it doesn't add much that wasn't clear from the sentence above.

> Consequences include:

Author: Perhaps this should be phrased a bit nicer and something along the lines of "ZZ coupling is a relevant effect that we need to account for durning calibration because neglecting to do so may result in .... "

* coherent phase accumulation during idle periods;
* reduced gate fidelity;

> * increased crosstalk;

Author: ```suggestion
```
I guess this one is by definition?

* limitations on simultaneous gate execution.

Estimating Residual ZZ
----------------------

> Two common characterization experiments are JAZZ and Ramsey ZZ.

Author: citations for JAZZ and Ramsey ZZ

> Both experiments described below exploit the same basic idea: put one

Author: ```suggestion
Both experiments are described below and exploit the same basic idea: put one
```

qubit (the "spectator" or "control") in :math:`|0\rangle` or
:math:`|1\rangle`, and use a Ramsey-type measurement on the other

> qubit (the "target") to detect the resulting frequency shift.

Author: ```suggestion
qubit (the "target") to detect the state-dependent frequency shift.
```

Ramsey ZZ (Conditional Ramsey)

> ------------------------------

Author: Probably "Ramsey ZZ (Conditional Ramsey)" and "JAZZ (Joint Amplification of ZZ)" should be subsection of "Estimating Residual ZZ".

> Given that through a Ramsey experiment we can measure carefully the frequency of the qubit,

Author: ```suggestion
Given that through a Ramsey experiment we can carefully measure the frequency of the qubit,
```

by repeating it while putting one of the neighbor qubits in

> state :math:`\ket{1}` we can have an estimate on the ZZ coupling :math:`\zeta`.

Author: ```suggestion
we can have estimate the ZZ coupling :math:`\zeta` by repeating the experiment while preparing one of the neighboring qubits in state :math:`\ket{1}`.
```

> For a more detailed discussion about Ramsey experiment see :ref:`ramsey`.

Author: ```suggestion
For a more detailed discussion of the Ramsey experiment see :ref:`ramsey`.
```

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^

.. autoclass:: qibocal.protocols.zz_interaction.ramsey_zz.RamseyZZParameters
    :noindex:

Example
^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: yaml

    - id: ramsey zz
      operation: ramsey_zz
      parameters:
        delay_range: [10, 2000, 50]
        detuning: 0.0
        targets: [0, 1]

.. image:: ramsey_zz.png

From :ref:`ramsey` we know that both signals oscillates according to

.. math::

   P_{|1\rangle}(t) = \frac{1}{2}\Big[1 + e^{-t/T_2^{*}}
   \cos\big(\Omega{c} \, t + \phi_0\big)\Big]

> where :math:`\delta_c` is the target frequenncy conditioned on

Author: ```suggestion
where :math:`\delta_c` is the target frequency conditioned on
```
